Why is Frederick “Bootie” Tubb the emperor of the novel?

Frederick, more commonly known as Bootie, grew up in Watertown, New York with his mom Judy. His father passed away a few years ago and his older sister moved out. Now 19 years old, Bootie lives at home after dropping out of college after his first semester at SUNY Oswego. He began college with high hopes and dreams of becoming a politician. Unfortunately, Bootie was soon disappointed and felt that Oswego was the Land of the Lies. It was place where people declared themselves educated after caring more about getting drunk and cheating on exams than actually studying and doing the work. Bootie decided it would be more beneficial to educate himself. He decides to leave home and move to Manhattan to learn from his uncle Murry. After all, he too had grown up in Watertown and made a name for himself in New York City. He doesn’t inform his mother of where he is going until he has already arrived and it is too late. Judy is beyond worried, but Bootie assures her that everything is fine.

Interested in Bootie’s idea to self-educate, Murry takes Bootie on as a secretary and shows him what it was like to be a writer. At first the job is great and Bootie loves working with his uncle, but over time, Bootie begins to realize his uncle is a fraud. Over the years Murry has put less effort into his work, began turning down low-paying events, and is even writing secret book. Murry is lying to everyone around him and Bootie decides his first independent work will be to write an essay exposing his uncle. Bootie works for weeks putting together his exposé until it is finished. He gives copies to his mother, Murry, and Marina with confidence that his family will love it. Bootie is shocked when he receives the opposite reaction. His family is furious and Murry informs Bootie that he can no longer work with him.

Bootie is left with nothing, but refuses to give up. He moves into an apartment in Fort Greene, Brooklyn and gets a temporary job through an agency Julius gives him the name of. On the morning of September 11, Bootie is caught up in the chaos on his way to work. He follows the crowds and runs uptown to Central Park where he spends the night. Instead of going back to Brooklyn or getting in touch with his family, Bootie takes the first bus out of Port Authority to Miami, Florida. He decides to fake his death, lose contact with his mother and family, and change his name to Ulrich New. It is in Miami that Bootie finally starts the he life he dreamed for himself.

Is it possible that Frederick “Bootie” Tubb could be the emperor of the novel?  From all the characters we have seen, Bootie acts more like an adult than any of them. He leaves home at 19, moves in with family he barely knows, and makes a new life for himself. After getting his feet wet in Manhattan, he has no problem with exposing his uncle. If it wasn’t already a bold move to write the essay, it was surprising to see that Bootie saw no problem with it. However, it was even more shocking that he thought people would praise him for it. No matter if it was true or not, no family member would appreciate all of Murry’s flaws being out in the open.

Bootie uses the attacks of September 11 to push him further away from his problems in New York. Instead of owning up to his mistakes, he moves away to Miami and creates a new life. Not only does he move away, he sees no issue in faking his death and leaving his mother alone without an explanation. Does Bootie’s sense of independence and self-approval give him the title of emperor? 
