_The Emperor’s Children_ by Claire Messud was written in 2006 and takes place in New York City during the year of 2001. It deals with a group of 3 friends, Marina, Danielle, and Julius, who met during their four years at Brown University. At the time of the story they are all 30 years old working towards different goals with a similar idea of making a name for themselves in New York. Throughout the novel Messud describes the relationship these 3 characters have with each other, as well as with other people who come into their lives. Marina’s cousin Frederick “Bootie” stirs up issues on his trip to Manhattan from Watertown, New York. Ludovic Seeley comes to Manhattan from Sydney, Australia in hopes of creating a magazine that makes his name known around the world. Danielle falls in love with Marina’s father Murry, and Julius struggles through temporary jobs while starting a new relationship with David Cohen.

How do the events of this novel relate to the title "The Emperor’s Children"? Messud never reveals who the people in the title are. Instead she leaves it open for the reader to decide. Since the novel is centered around the lives of Marina, Danielle, and Julius, it is plausible to say they are the children the title refers to. But who is the emperor? Who holds the most power? Through the website I will discuss all three of the “children” as well as possible options for the “emperor”. By reading each character analysis, it is up to you to decide how they fit the title of either child or emperor. Who is the “emperor” and who are the emperor’s “children”?
