Why is Marina Thwaite a child of the emperor?

Marina was born and raised on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was known as the “It-Girl” and had no responsibility growing up. Her parents did everything for her, the housekeeper was always there to clean up, and everything she asked for was given to her. Now at 30 years old, Marina has moved back home to finish her book after many years of very little progress. For most of us, moving back home at the age of 30 is probably at the very bottom of things we want to do. However, Marina doesn’t seem to have any issue with it. Instead she enjoys being home all the time. She doesn’t have a job, the housekeeper is still there to clean up after her, she doesn’t cook, and she doesn’t even take care of her own cat. Even as an adult Marina is just as spoiled as she was when she was a child. Instead of focusing on her book, she spends her day waiting around outside her father’s office to get just a bit of his attention she so desperately loves. 

Soon after Marina moves back home she learns that her younger cousin Frederick “Bootie” will be coming to stay with them for a while. Marina is furious and feels it is unfair that they should go out of their way to accommodate Bootie as they aren’t even that close to him. It is interesting that Marina feels this way. The only difference to her will be that Bootie will stay in the guest room down the hall. Also, she doesn’t realize that her moving back home was also a change for her parents. They too have to accommodate her. 

Once Bootie arrives it is obvious Marina doesn’t like him. She refers to him as “Fat Frederick” and finds it a chore to introduce him to her friends. Above all Marina is annoyed that her father is impressed by her cousin.  It upsets Marina that he offers to let Bootie work as his secretary and show him what he does for a living. All Marina truly cares about in life in getting close to her father and impressing him. With Bootie in the mix, it takes some of his attention away from her.  

Once becoming engaged to Ludovic Seeley, Marina convinces her friends that they truly love each other and aren’t rushing things. The couple decides to get married Labor Day Weekend, just before the release of Ludo’s new magazine, The Monitor. Since there is not much time before the wedding, Marina decides to have their engagement party during their annual Fourth of July party at their country home in Stockbridge, Massachusetts. Marina becomes enraged that Danielle won’t be in attendance at the party due to her job. Marina is very immature and doesn’t take no for an answer. Instead of acting like an adult who is soon to be married, she complains and refuses to see anyone’s point of view other than her own. 

Many of the characteristics that Marina inhabits are those of a spoiled child. Growing up she never had to do anything for herself, and now that she’s an adult she simply doesn’t know how, nor does she want to learn. You can say that throughout the novel she does make some changes and become a bit more independent, however, she still falls back on either her parents or Ludo and cannot stand on her own. 
