Why is Murry Thwaite the emperor of the novel?

After growing up in Watertown, New York Murry decided he needed a change and moved to Manhattan to pursue a career in journalism. He has come a long way since first moving to New York City is well-known for his writing around Manhattan and the country. Murry and his family live in a large apartment on the Upper West Side on Central Park West with magnificent views of the park. He is able to work from home and doesn’t report to anyone but himself. He has truly made it.

Along with his fame and fortune comes a sense of entitlement. Murry believes he can do whatever he wants and treat people any type of way. In the recent months he has been letting the fame get to his head and turning down low-paying appearances simply because he feels he is better than them. Bootie discovers that Murry has neglected his work and hasn’t been putting the same effort into his writings as he once had. In a way he has given up and feels people should just appreciate him because of his name and who he is.

This sense of entitlement has carried over to his love life. Although married to his wife Annabel, Murry has been flirting with one of his students at Columbia. He has even formed a romantic relationship with his daughter’s best friend Danielle. The relationship with Danielle started off as simple e-mails concerning his daughter’s book and her well-being. However, they quickly escalated to much more than that. Over time the e-mails became more flirtatious, and soon they began meeting in person. He even lies to his wife about a business trip to Chicago, even though it has been canceled, just to get a few days alone with Danielle. Murry knows he shouldn’t cheat on his wife but continues to do as he pleases with a mindset similar to “what she doesn’t know can’t hurt her”.

It is clear that Murry sees himself as a sort of emperor, especially the emperor of his own family. He does what he wants and is able to get away with anything. He has left his old life behind in Watertown and creates a new life for himself in the city. It has been years since he last visited his family and he probably wouldn’t have gone back if it wasn’t for the memorial service his sister Judy planned for his nephew Bootie after 9-11. Does Murry’s behavior and sense of entitlement allow him to take on the role of emperor? 
